Welcome to full stack TypeScript.
I'm Mike North.
And I'm a senior staff engineer at
LinkedIn where I work on developer
infrastructure.
I've been a Frontend Masters
teacher since 2015.
Today, I'm here to talk to you
about full stack TypeScript.
You may enjoy using TypeScript for
your browser based, or your server
side code which is no surprise because
it offers a great authoring experience.
And you catch entire categories of
bugs at build time before they ever
affect a single user.
One of the downsides to working this way,
it's not really a downside,
but something we don't have yet
in a setup like this is the ability
to get the benefits of type
checking across an API call.
This is to say, anytime you fetch data,
and you get a response back,
you find yourself having to assert that,
yeah,
I expect this payload to
be of a particular type.
And there's nothing that makes sure that
all of that stays in alignment except your
own vigilance as a human being.
And the project we're going into work
on today, we're going to try to create
a system that looks more like this,
where you can kind of see how the green
color represents one set of types that
are shared across the client and server.
And then another set of types that
represent how data is actually persisted
in our database that's sort
of this purple color here.
What this means is you get all
the benefits you already love about
TypeScript, like the ability
to confidently refactor,
make sure you haven't
left any dangling things.
You get that across these network calls,
right?
And to do that, we're gonna use GraphQL.
So the scenario we're going to explore
today involves using TypeScript for
all of our client and server side code,
GraphQL for API query language and our
wire format meaning the way we construct
our JSON as it travels over the network.
And we're gonna focus on using a very
simple relational database it's just
based off of a JSON file.
It's important to understand that
if you were to swap that out for
something more realistic like SQL
relational database or a document store
like Mongo DB everything we're working on
today it will still benefit you greatly.
You can even replace your back end
with something that's not written in
TypeScript and you'll get some of the same
benefits that we're going to enjoy.
The way we're going to get hands on
with all of these great tools is by
building a Twitter clone.
At the beginning of the day,
we're gonna start out with UI completely
based off of hard-coded static data.
It'll look great, but it won't do much.
By the end of the day,
you'll be creating new tweets and
you'll be able to like an unlike tweets,
not to mention the fact that
everything you see on the screen will be
powered by real data coming from your
database through GraphQL into the UI,
a much more realistic scenario.
Before we get into the project, let's talk
a little bit about what GraphQL is and
what problems it aims to solve.
So let's imagine a hypothetical scenario
where we are building a new page for
an existing app.
Let's imagine we have this
screen on the right already and
we're being asked to build something
like what you see on the left.
So we may have an API endpoint that
already exists that produces a lot of
detailed information to power
this right side of the screen but
we may need some different things on the
left maybe a field that doesn't exist yet.
For example,
what if we wanted to enable or
disable this little book button based
on the doctor's current schedule.
So we have a couple choices in terms
of how we want to proceed if we want to
go and do this with a restful API.
First, we could use the existing endpoint
as is an add this availability field.
And if we imagine that might involve
talking to some calendar system which
could take a little while,
this means everything that's asking for
information about a doctor,
gets a little bit slower.
We could build an entirely new
endpoint that produces data only for
this availability field.
And we could ask for
the existing doctor information and
this new thing in parallel.
This is gonna result in a lot of little
fragmented supplemental API resources.
And it's gonna be very difficult to
keep everything well organized over
a long period of time.
The third option is we could build
an entirely new API endpoint that gives us
everything we need for
this new scenario we need to handle.
This is gonna result in a lot of duplicate
code where you'll have doctor detail view,
doctor summary view,
doctor advanced view, doctor admin view.
And all of a sudden this whole idea of
leveraging a single API endpoint for
doctor is gone, right?
That's not ideal either.
Finally, we could modify the existing
endpoint, so that it produces
a different response depending on
a query parameter that we pass in.
The fourth option we have is to
modify the existing API endpoint.
For example, providing a query parameter
that tells the API whether to produce
a summary or a details view which may
involve different fields for each.
This is going to become difficult to
manage at scale, especially if we don't
establish a strong convention across
all of the resources we have to manage.
What does summary mean?
What does details mean?
In addition, if we have multiple
different options that all
can influence each other as new
scenarios need to be handled.
You can see how we end up having
to worry about a lot of different
combinations of things and
how they interact with each other.
Even if we had these three different
flags that we could turn on,
that would influence the way
a doctor is represented.
We'll end up with n factorial scenarios
even if we worry about pairs have options
and how they interact with each other
it starts to get very complicated.
So GraphQL aims to solve problems like
this one in that a client asks for
the data that it needs.
And we can avoid problems like
over fetching by producing only
the data that's asked for and no more.
We'll learn more about the details
of GraphQL by getting hands on and
tackling the concepts that
are involved one by one.
For now,
let's dig into the workshop project and
examine the starting point code.
First, you should clone the GitHub repo,
which is Mike North, full stack TS.
After you have your local working copy,
I recommend you install Volta
which ensures that you're
going to use the same Node and
Yarn versions that I do when I'm
running the project for the class.
To install the dependencies for
the project, just run yarn.
Once you have it locally cloned,
you can run yarn build
to create your first build and
then run yarn dev to start up the server.
I'm gonna go ahead and
do that for us right now.
Yarn to install the dependencies
Looks like a build is happening
automatically, which is great.
This shouldn't do much oops,
if I can spell build correctly.
Great, and
now I should be able to run yarn dev.
And I should see a nice little banner,
saying the servers running on
local host 1234 there it is,
may happen twice for the first time you
started out, but that's no big deal.
So you can click this first link here,
localhost 1234.
You should see something that
looks like this, the Twitter UI.
So where will we find ourselves
at the end of this course?
We're gonna to start with this
Twitter app that's purely hard
coded on the client side.
It's just pulling fixture data from arrays
that are in those client side modules.
By the end of the day,
we'll be able to create new tweaks and
we'll be able to interact
with that like button.
We should be able to see the little
heart light up and go away, and
the count should increment.
And all of the data we see on
the UI should be coming ultimately
from our database and
traveling to the UI through GraphQL.
In terms of what we won't end
up touching in this course,
this is stuff that is sort of beyond
the scope of what we're focusing on.
We shouldn't have to touch any CSS.
We shouldn't have to install
any new dependencies.
We shouldn't have to change
the TypeScript config.
And we should not have to worry too
much how our backend interacts with
the database, right?
We're just gonna use that db class, and
that has methods on it, ready to go.
It has everything you should need on it.
And we'll consider that to be a separate
topic, like the ORM aspect of things.